### intro

- My name is Kevin Burke, I work on the API team at Twilio.

- We offer an API that lets developers make calls and send text messages

- This means if people can't figure out how to use the API they can't pay us

- So we spend a fair amount of time thinking about our documentation

### What this talk is about

blah blah blah

### What it's not about

- Obviously there are people that don't write documentation

- You can also decrease the need for documentation by designing a better
  interface, etc. 

- These problems are outside the scope of this talk. Write documentation

### Once upon a time, people wrote documentation that no one read

- How do I know people aren't reading your documentation? because people don't
  read anything on the internet

### Explain why no one reads anything

- Jakob Nielsen, bible

- Eye tracking - F shaped pattern

### What do readers look at

- Sub-headings

- Bullet lists

- One idea per paragraph

- Meaningful text and images

- Variations in typeface (Links, bolded text, etc)

### How will this manifest itself?

- Increased support load, for things that are answered in your documentation

- dropoff between signing up, activation.

- people just never getting started with your product

- Lots of reasons go into this - product not useful in your area, customer
  not in the target market, etc. - but possible that they couldn't figure out
  how to get started.

### Frustrating for you

- higher support costs, lower activation etc

### As a user this is frustrating as hell

- This is why people give up computers

### Why does this happen?

- Lots of reasons, but let's focus on a few

### Imagine the documentation writer

- You've just pushed v1 or about to push it, and you're writing some docs about
how to use it.

- In a bigger company, the engineers have written the code and the product
manager or the technical writer has just gotten the specification, or has been
using the beta.

- Generally doing the bulk of the drafts in one or two sittings.

- You have full knowledge of the product

### Imagine the reader

- Reader is very distracted

- 10 tabs open

- Very bad at searching

### Examples

- Twilio Quickstart - "Click button to read more"

- Code snippet that needs context

- $ foo baz bang

### Habit: users are also really bad searchers.

- Nielsen, "Incompetent Research Skills Curb Users' Problem Solving"

- People don't change their search query to try and find an answer. They just
  try different results for the same search

- Spolsky - question needs to be asked 4 different ways to cover all the ways
  people search for it.

### Why do people scan?

- Clay Christensen, "jobs to be done"

- We sell milkshakes. Who should we sell them to?

- Kids, moms, etc.

- flip it around. Why do you buy a milkshake?

- Commuters - want a thicker milkshake, keep them occupied during the commute.

- Kids - want a thinner milkshake so their parents don't get annoyed.

### Apply the same to your documentation

- Hiring your product to do a job

- Writing your documentation to explain what the product does

- But people visit your documentation for all sorts of different reasons

- The problems they have are unrelated to the problem (as you've laid them out)
on your site

### Examples:

- Not just "I'm trying to send an SMS" - "I want to send a message to a user's
phone number from this specific line of Ruby code in my program"

### How can you find out what users are trying to do?

- They'll tell you. Look at your support tickets.

- Look at your forum if you have one. 

- Look at your Google Analytics data

- Compare the mental model of users to your own mental model of the product

### What we did about this

- We saw a lot of people looking for language-specific data

- Moved the code samples inline

### Let's try to come up with a model for how users complete a task

- Here's an error a user came up with when trying to send an SMS.

- OpenSSL::SSL::SSLError: SSL\_connect returned=1 errno=0 state=SSLv3 read server certificate B:  certificate verify failed

- Let's say you got that error - What is the first thing you're gonna do?

### Google search results

- None of these are your website.

- Where does that leave the user?

### Lesson

If users get an error message a lot, put the exact text in your documentation

### People on the Internet know this

- don't get outranked by Ehow

### Going even further

- If you're going to put it in your documentation, why not just fix it at the
source?

- Does anyone know why this error actually happens?

- Error generated by Ruby Std Lib for SSL error. Not your problem, but it kind
  of is your problem. It's getting in the way of users with your software

### Andrew SSL cert commit


### Another example of this

RVM:

    $ \curl -L https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable --rails --autolibs=enabled # Or, --ruby=1.9.3

### Example

This is really easy to do 

```ruby
    def post
        if !is_valid_url params[:url]
            flash[:error] = "Url is invalid"
            redirect_to :action => 'settings'
        end

        # Do something with the form..
    end
```

### Raises a lot of questions

- Which Url is invalid?

- Why is it invalid? Empty? Blacklisted domain? Malformed?

- What data am I actually sending over the wire?

- Could write documentation for this...or

### Better

```ruby
    def post
        if !params.has_key(:url) or params[:url].length == 0
            flash[:error] = "Please include a Url"
        end
        if !is_valid_url params[:url]
            flash[:error] = "Url #{params[:url]} is invalid"
            redirect_to :action => 'settings'
        end

        # Do something with the form..
    end
```

### Best

I see this all the time

```ruby
    if !is_valid_url params[:url]
        flash[:error] = "Url #{params[:url]} is invalid"
        if is_valid_url "http://#{params[:url]}"
            flash[:error] += ". Did you mean http://#{params[:url]}?"
        end
        redirect_to :action => 'settings'
    end
```

- Is this a lot of work? Sure

- So is marketing, sales, conversion optimization etc.

- Costs more to have them drop off, get frustrated now than it does before
  they're in the door

### Learn more about your users

- What are they trying to do?

- How are they finding your content?

- When they screw up, how do they find answers to their questions?

### Going even further - user testing

- Don't need a fancy lab. Don't need a whole lot of users.

- Pick a simple task on your site and ask a user to do it. Then be quiet and
  watch them do it.

### Takeaways - SEO

- SEO is important. Stick your important error messages in your docs

- Headlines should describe the page. Meta description should describe the
  content. URL should describe the content.

- Don't make your documentation a PDF

### Takeaways - Errors

- The cause of user failure is rarely a lack of documentation. Often:
Confusion, couldn't find/didn't look for the docs, user model of the product
doesn't match yours.

- Go closer to the user. Make your error messages the documentation

- Fix problems before users even have them

### Takeaways - Make your documentation readable

- https://github.com/docusign/DocuSign-eSignature-SDK - fixed width

- lines are too long https://developer.atlassian.com/static/rest/jira/5.2.10.html

Use "steps"

